If you are interested in hacking sodipodi source, you are welcome. But be
cautious, as every single thing in structure/API may change yet. If you ever
have a good idea, how some subsystem should work, let me too know.

Some things that should be done (in random order):
- printing from command line, without display (should work without X)
- bonobo support
- plugin support
- use GnomeMDI for App<->Desktop hierarchy (mostly done)
- good and clean API for dealing with sealection changes
- extracting available fonts from gnome-print
- gradient fills
- 'fast_art' rendering of svp-s (vpaths?) (without antialiasing)
- exporting bitmaps (png-s, at least). Also from command line
- undo/redo, cut/copy/paste
- all fancy filling types (fractals & so on)
- automake chemistry, creating package files
- import and export filters

Please consult with separate HACKING files in subdirs. Some modules
are only placeholders for something better and standardized (repr et al.)

You are always welcome to correct my spelling (except in variable names,
of course ;-)).

As of translating, be first sure, that the english phrases are correct
and meaningful (if they are not, somebody will replace these with better
ones)

This code should be quite modular and will become even more. A rough
blueprint is as follows:

1. reprs & cousins
SPRepr, SPCSSAttr ...
These are temporary wrappers around xml backbone. As soon as gdome is
usable for such tasks I'll replace these with DOM.
Currently reprs (Representation Objects) hold all item attributes. Object
tree is also constructed of reprs. They emit signals (to be exact - call
functions), if modified, deleted etc. Most editing should be done directly
to repr attributes.
Reprs know, who are their editable (canvas) object, canvas objects do not
know anything about reprs.

2. Items

These are typed backbone of everything under the Sun. They know both about
reprs and canvas things, update itself (at least they should) if reprs change
and update canvas items, if they themselves change.

3. Graphics layout
desktop.c, drawing.c

Canvas root
Acetate, Desktop
Grid, Guides, Drawarea, Sketch, Controls

Acetate is borrowed from gill - it is basically infinite empty item, which
serves as mouse target

grid & guides groups are there, but not in use
drawing - this is most interesting
sketch - simply a group I created for temporary items
controls - group which holds resizing buttons, rubberband etc.

Primary coordinate system for all items is desktop. This is mirrored
vertically to produce postscript coordinates. I.e. desktop unit = 1/72 in.
While reading svg, the drawing group will be mirrored once more, to produce
svg coords (y grows downwards)

The desktop will probably be broken into hierarchical trees of things like:
Desktop
    EditableDesktop
    PreviewDesktop
    BonoboContainer
& so on.

4. Selection
This is per desktop object, that keep track, which items are currently
selected. It is capable of emitting "changed" signal (probably in future
"attrmodified" too), to notice all interested parties about selection
changes (fill & stroke dialogs for example use this method)

Here is one caveat - it is impossible to set selection to reprs, only to items
(opposite is very possible). This cannot be easily circumvented, as reprs
do not know anything about items, but selected items are needed anyway. One
possibility (what I probably do in future) is implementing some repr
chemistry through document interface (sp_document_add_repr already exist)

5. Context
This object (hierarchy) defines, how mouse events on desktop are interpreted.
Every desktop has its own context (select, node, rect & so on)


Lauris Kaplinski
<lauris@ariman.ee>
