Sodipodi

Sodipodi is (or at least should be) an vector illustrator program for GNOME
environment. It is currently in active development and probably not very
usable for any real work.

If you are interested in production quality program, try sketch
http://sketch.sourceforge.net/

If you are more interested in hacking, you can also try out KIllustrator,
Gill and GYVE. Sodipodi eagerly borrows code from every other free program
under the Sun (hey - isn't it the main point about free software?)

You can always find the freshest sodipodi at GNOME CVS. Official homepage is
http://sodipodi.sourceforge.net/
There you can also find links to binary/source packages

Compiling should be trivial, but I cannot guarantee that it works on any other
system aside mine:

./configure
make
make install

You need reasonably recent libglade ang gdk-pixbuf.
If you have very fresh gnome-print, you should manually comment out libspgt1
in src/Makefile.am.
You can also add --without-bonobo to configure command line to disable
HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL bonobo support

If you modify sodipodi in any usable way, please let me know also.

Some demo pictures could have absolute paths for imported images. So if they
do not display correctly, tune them with a good text editor.

Some guidelines:

Command line:
-z, --without-gui         do not open GUI, useful for printing SVG documents
-f --file filename        open file
-p --print outputfile     prints file (use "| lpr" for pipelining)

Node editing has some very bad memory corruption bugs. So if you plan to
use this SAVE OFTEN.
Ctrl & Shift modify dragging behaviour in some modes
Shift click usually toggles selection
To break line (or add node) select its endpoints
It should import png, bmp, jpg, xpm & gif bitmaps and svg vector images.
Open can handle only svg graphics
It does not yet handle following svg shapes:
- line
- polyline
- polygon (use path instead)
- circle
- square?
When importing svg generated with ill2svg, all paths are usually grouped.
Ungroup these manually. To add more fonts, please tinker with font-wrapper.c
& text-dialog.c

2000/01/09

Lauris Kaplinski
<lauris@ariman.ee>
